# Project-22-Doppler-Radar

This Github is composed of scripts pertaining to the 2023-2024 NCSU ECE Senior Design Project 22 

The first script is "binfile_convert.mlx" This is a MatLab live script that takes the .BIN file that is output from mmWave studio, and outputs an array of data. This array of data is composed of the returned In-Phase and Quadrature data from your collection. This data array can then be used for further processing. To use the script, you will need to change the "fileName" variable to be equal to your respective file name of the data you collected, as well as you will need to change any other parameters that are often changed in data collection to ensure they are the same as how you collected data. For example, if you increase the number of ADC samples per chirp, then you would need to change the "numADCSamples" variable. This script was obtained from a TI instructional PDF, found here: https://www.ti.com/lit/an/swra581b/swra581b.pdf?ts=1713080462729

The next script is "microdoppler.m" This Matlab script has the code from the previous script "binfile_convert.mlx" to ease the process, as well as further code to process the output data. Following from where the first script leaves off, this script takes the data array that is output, detects the range bin(s) that corresponds to the detection, and performs multiple FFTs to extract range and doppler information, and then creates a doppler bin vs frame plot that corresponds to velocity over time, and is a way of visualizing a unique micro doppler signature

The last script is "wvd_test.mlx" This MatLab live script is similar to "microdoppler.m" in that it has the first script embedded into it. Apart from that, this script takes the output data array and visaulizes the data using a Wigner Ville Distribution. MatLab has direct functions for this, however extra work is needed to properly scale the frequency and time axes. There is also tests for visualizing the data using a continuous wavelet transform, however both of these avenues require more research to understand how they can fit the project needs. This script is included in the GitHub as a reminder of other visualization forms, but for now the "microdoppler.m" method should continue to be worked with as it shows a strong means of visualizing the data and providng a path towards feature extraction and training a model.
